---
title: Hello world, and all that.
---

I've heard somewhere, before, that a toolmaker should make their own tools.  I
can't quite remember the source, but it's got that folksy wisdom quality that
makes it stick with you. "Ah, of course," you will say to yourself knowingly,
"a toolmaker makes tools, and they use tools, so they should make their own
tools." And a programmer does nothing if not toolmaking, so I should be making
my own tools, right? [The spectre of "write your own" is always
looming.](/s3-hugo-and-static-asset-hosting/) and well, here it is.

# Question: Why don't you just write html?

Is this a real question? Because if you're _writing prose_, dealing with html
is a bummer. I mean, it doesn't have to be, it's not _that_ big a deal, I'm not
_complaining_, I _could_ do that, but the truth is, I really do like markdown!
Despite it's troubled upbringing, it feels very natural as a format for writing
medium length or longform posts, and the interoperability with html makes it
uniquely suited to blogish static site generation. So, step one will be simple:
take in a markdown file and put out a processed html file.

In deno this turns out to be quite easy, here it is in its entireity:

TODO. make this only one post, that doesn't process it.

```javascript
import {
  ensureDirSync,
  expandGlobSync,
} from "https://deno.land/std@0.91.0/fs/mod.ts";
import { paramCase } from "https://deno.land/x/case/mod.ts";
import { Marked } from "https://deno.land/x/markdown@v2.0.0/mod.ts";

// We create the output directory:
ensureDirSync("./build");

const inputFiles = expandGlobSync("**/*.md");
for (const file of inputFiles) {
  // Everything is synchronous, we read in the file:
  const input = Deno.readTextFileSync(file.path);

  // We write the file processed through markdown:
  const markup = Marked.parse(input);
  Deno.writeTextFileSync(
    `./build/${paramCase(markup.meta.title)}.html`,
    markup.content,
  );
}
```

A few things of note, here. First, I'm pulling in _everything_ with the suffix
`.md` in any level of the source directory, which in this case is the working
directory.

then process it through markdown,
then make it look at multiple files
then make a template file / main css file / frontmatter
then make an index file with a list of all the things
static assets hosting
configurations setups
build steps to have javascript arbitrary in there
dark / light theming, and noscript version (that can also be exported to pdf if I'm feeling ambitious)

development tooling: tests, incremental build, live reload server?
hosting apparatus
  static so can be anywhere, what do I do if I want my own metrics? deno on edge servers?
